you
[Music]
hello you are watching the next episode
of how they changed and let's talk about
one of the most iconic TV soap operas
Santa Barbara
Santa Barbara began on an uneven footing
with one reviewer deeming the series the
worst program on television maybe ever
mark the Vizia claimed in August 1984
that Santa Barbara was a cereal full of
hammy acting predictable storylines and
atrocious dialogue however creators and
executive producers Brigitte and Jeremy
Dobson tighten the shoes cost among a
handful of popular characters and
proceeded to cue off or write out week
lines and supporting characters via a
natural disaster and the Carnation
killer serial killer storyline the
original plotline surrounded conflicts
between the wealthy Capra and Lockridge
families stage legend and Oscar nominee
Dame Judith Anderson received a great
deal of publicity a headline in the cast
as Lockridge matriarch minks but other
than a few attempts to give her major
storyline she was rarely seen when the
Lockridge is staged a comeback in the
early 1990s the much younger brave way
and movie veteran Janice Page assumed
the part the soap showed promise with an
early Alexis Carrington style villainous
Augusta Lockridge Louise sorrow but even
though critics praised her performance
the storyline was suddenly dropped and
sorrow left the show she would return
later on a recurring basis and signed a
contract when the LA creatures were
written back in as regular characters
when a major earthquake hit Santa
Barbara Co character Danny Andrade slept
through the whole thing
Vince Lockridge was unfazed saying that
the 1984 Santa Barbara earthquake was
nothing like the one in 1925 she was
late too locked in an empty
sarcophagus luckily her grandchildren
were around to let her out and she
escaped with merely a bruised ego by
concentrating on such popular characters
as Eden capital and cruise castelia CC
Kapil and his wife Sophia
Mason Kapil and Julia Wainwright capful
Gina Blake Angela raiment and Warren
Lockridge and Augusta and Lionel
Lockridge the program managed to achieve
critical acclaim as well as slowly but
surely rising ratings the show was
famous for its comedic style and offbeat
writing for example in the 14th of July
1986 episode former nun Mary Duvall
mcCormick halogen Kazakh was killed by
giant neon lettuce scene for Kapil it of
the careful hotel toppling on her while
she was standing on the hotel roof
during an argument this was later
referenced in the American Dad episode
homeland insecurity despite an irate
letter-writing campaign by the show's
fans and him offer from the soap to come
back Kozik was reported as saying that
she had no desire to return to Santa
Barbara or in fact any other daytime
soap another example from 1989 involved
Craig Hughes for Johansson having a
dream while unconscious about Mason and
Julia being aliens and being taken to
the Capitol zone in 1988 the Dobson's
were looked out of NBC Studios after
repeated attempts to fly the head writer
they sued and were eventually allowed to
return to the program but ratings never
recovered even as the show won three
Daytime Emmys in a row for Outstanding
Drama Series under new executive
producer Jeff Erin Phelps tenure most of
the show revolved around Cruz and Eden
one controversial storyline involved
Eden being brutally raped and later
discovering that her assailant was her
gynecologist sac Kelton who examined her
after her ape Lee McCluskey the actor
who played the RO stated that he was
uncomfortable with the storyline as he
felt that women had enough concerns
about visiting Gynaecologists after sex
death McCluskey returned as a new
character district attorney Ethan Asha
Phelps left the series in the early
1990s shortly after being demoted and
replaced by John Conway as executive
producer finally Paul Roush became the
last executive producer all three would
later be producers on the long-running
daytime series guiding light many
important actors had left the series for
one reason or another Robin Wright was
the first to leave in 1988 to focus on
her film career following the success of
The Princess Bride the previous year
later in 1988
Justin DS left followed by lame Davis in
1989 and Marcy Walker in 1991 popular
actress Lewis sorrel was fired in 1991
because she did not want to have a
romance with - Nichols the man who had
raped augustus sister Julia Eden Cruise
and most of the LA Courage's hadn't
written out while new characters played
by stars from other shows such as Kim
Seema Jack Wagner and Sydney penny took
up most of the airtime Nicholas Costa
had returned after two and a half year
absence but his character disappeared
soon after as Koster could not come to
terms over the lack of storyline he had
gotten after such promise when he first
came back by the time Koster had
resolved the issues and returned
permanently Lewis sorrel was on her way
out and Lionel was paired in
arraignments with C C's former wife Gina
ratings continued to collapse is more
and more affiliates drop the program
many affiliates began moving the show to
Puglia time periods as early as
a.m. and 1:00 p.m. the final episode
aired in January 1993 in the finale
Safian CC Kapil moved towards a
reconciliation kelly found love with
Connor McCabe and if Warren and Vijay's
wedding unbalanced and decline aimed a
gun at the crowd however she was quickly
disarmed and carried away by Connor this
was then followed by roll call list of
the cast and crew the final shot
consisted of executive producer Paul
Roach standing in front of the camera
smashing a cigar and his shoe and
walking away the first notable departure
happened when Robin Wright ended her
four-year run as the original Kelly
Kapur followed by the departure of Todd
McGee as the original Ted Koppel and the
exit of lane Davis as Mason Kapil by
1992 most of the original characters had
either been recast a few times or
written out and new characters arrived
on the scene causing the ratings to
continue collapsing until the show was
finally canceled in the final episode
the only remaining original actor from
the pilot was margarita Cordova as the
faithful Capitol housekeeper Rosa
Andrade although many of the original
characters remained including sissy
Sophia Callie Mason tad Warren Lockridge
Lionel Gina and minks MVC usually pitted
Santa Barbara against General Hospital
on ABC and guiding light on CBS both of
which enjoyed high ratings at the time
in the same timeslot across all markets
when NBC cancelled the long-running soap
search for tomorrow in 1986 it launched
its
NBC daytime it will excite you campaign
which promoted the three-hour block of
serials starting with Days of Our Lives
followed by another world and ending
with Santa Barbara in most markets
across the u.s.
however some markets choose to air Santa
Barbara in a mid-morning timeslot taking
an out of competition with other soaps
although Santa Barbara enjoyed a
considerable worldwide popularity it
never achieved the same heights in the
United States in its debut 1984-1985
season it finished in the 11th place and
3.4 and aged up to the tenth and 4.2 the
next year by 1987 however it did begin
to generate respectable numbers it was
still in the 10th place but achieved a
4.9 rating the highest in the history of
the show
incidentally the 1987-1988 television
season also proved to be the best
ratings performance of the 1980s for
NBC's daytime soap lineup which had been
in ratings trouble since the late 1970s
and that's all for now don't forget to
leave a like subscribe and share this
video with fans take care